---
layout: post
title: How to install Chef Server 0.10 on Ubuntu 12.4
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 31 Oct 2012 - Moscow

This is an example of quick installation Chef Server 0.10 on Ubuntu 12.4

Chef Server is an opensource configuration management tool written by OpsCode.

**1. Select Ubuntu Machines**

We need two ubuntu machines. The first machine will be used for Chef Server host (Server), the second one is for Chef Client host (Client).

**2. Both Client and Server preparation**

All steps are doing under root permissions, so we need to switch user to root.

bc. sudo -i

At first we need to add OpsCode sources to the apt-get utility.

bc. echo "deb http://apt.opscode.com/ precise-0.10 main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/opscode.list

In second step we need to add OpsCode keys

bc. mkdir -p /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d
gpg --keyserver keys.gnupg.net --recv-keys 83EF826A
gpg --export packages@opscode.com | sudo tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/opscode-keyring.gpg > /dev/null

We need to update packages list.

bc. apt-get update

Additionally install keyring utility to keep OpsCode key up to date.

bc. apt-get install opscode-keyring

Run upgrade to ensure that your system is up to date

bc. apt-get upgrade

Install Ruby if needed

bc. apt-get install ruby1.8 rubygems


**2. Only Server preparation**

On the server machine we need to install Chef Server packages.

bc. apt-get install chef chef-server

Enter URL like this: http://chef.example-server.com:4000
Enter RabbitMQ password and WebUI admin password.

Create directory for user "ubuntu" (Cloud Version of the Ubuntu) and copy certificates

bc. mkdir -p /home/ubuntu/.chef
cp /etc/chef/validation.pem /etc/chef/webui.pem /home/ubuntu/.chef
chown -R ubuntu:ubuntu /home/ubuntu/.chef

Switch user 

bc. su - ubuntu

Configure knife

bc. knife configure -i

Fill the fields:
Please enter the chef server URL:  http://chef.example-server.com:4000
Please enter the location of the existing admin client's private key: [/etc/chef/webui.pem] .chef/webui.pem
Please enter the location of the validation key: [/etc/chef/validation.pem] .chef/validation.pem

You will get the message "Configuration file written to /home/ubuntu/.chef/knife.rb"


**3. Only Client preparation**

Install chef-client on Ubuntu machine:

bc. apt-get install chef

Copy validation.pem to /etc/chef/validation.pem

Run the client:

bc. chef-client