---
layout: post
title: OpenStack Essex Crowbar Installation Guide
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 20 July 2012 - Moscow

This is OpenStack Install guide on VMWare Workstation Under Windows

**1. Download ISO**

Open the "page":http://cr0wbar.com/ select CrowBar OpenStack ISO and download it.

At this time it is available "Crowbar 1.4 with OpenStack Essex":http://crowbar.zehicle.com/openstack-fred3.iso 

**2. Create VLAN interface in VMWare Workstation**

We need 192.168.124.0 with mask 255.255.255.0 network, VMnet1

Change VMnet8 to have 192.168.[your VMnet8].1 router and Change in Windows->Networks->Setting->VMnet8->IPv4 Setting->IP to
192.168.[your VMnet8].2 

**3. Create Virtual Machine**

Select networks:
   1. VMnet1
   2. VMnet8 NAT

Create Virtual Machine as Linux Ubuntu-64, select custom install,
2 cores, 2 CPUs, 4Gb Memory and 20Gb Disk.

Select ISO in CD-rom, start installation

Change ".vmx" file

pre.. 

vcpu.hotadd = FALSE

p. Start installation process 


**4. Boot and change networks** 

Boot VM after installation

Login: crowbar/crowbar

Change user to root

bc. sudo bash

Enter: crowbar

Change eth1 in /etc/network/interfaces

Append text:

pre.. 

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp

p. Refresh networks

bc. service networking restart

Check NAT is working

bc. ping google.com

**5. Changing proposal for Network barclamp**

Be superuser

Go to network barclamp

bc. cd /opt/dell/barclamps/network

Edit json

bc. nano chef/data_bags/crowbar/bc-template-network.json

Change settings:

pre.. 

attributes.network.mode="dual"
networks.public.use_vlan="false"
networks.public.subnet=192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].0
networks.public.netmask=255.255.255.0
networks.public.broadcast=192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].255
networks.public.router=192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].1
networks.public.ranges.host.start=192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].3
networks.public.ranges.host.end=192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].25
networks.public.ranges.dhcp.start=192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].26
networks.public.ranges.dhcp.end=192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].50

networks.nova_floating.use_vlan="false"
networks.nova_floating.subnet=192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].64
networks.nova_floating.netmask=255.255.255.192
networks.nova_floating.broadcast=192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].127
networks.nova_floating.ranges.host.start=192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].65
networks.nova_floating.ranges.host.end=192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].126

p. Change admin block if your eth0 is not in 192.168.124.0

**5. Continue normal install process**

Be superuser

bc. cd /tftpboot/ubuntu_dvd/extra

Run install script

bc. ./install admin.[your domain].com

To see screen run

bc. screen -r -S crowbar-install


**6. Crowbar operation**

bc. cd /opt/dell/bin
./crowbar network allocate_ip default admin.[your domain].com public host 192.168.[your NAT VMnet8].10 -U crowbar -P crowbar

Open crowbar page http://192.168.124.10:3000

Login: crowbar/crowbar

Open chef server page http://192.168.124.10:4040

Login: admin/password

Open Nagios page http://192.168.124.10/nagios3
Open Ganglia page http://192.168.124.10/ganglia

Login: nagiosadmin/password
