---
layout: post
title: OpenStack Essex Scripted Installation Guide
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 11 July 2012 - Moscow

This is OpenStack Install guide on VirtualBox Under Windows

**1. Download VirtualBox**

The best solution is to download the latest version of the VirtualBox from this "page":https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads

I hope you are having 64 bit operation system, in this case select 64 bit VirtualBox

**2. Create additional interfaces**

Add two interfaces:
* 172.16.0.254 with mask 255.255.0.0
* 10.0.0.1 with mask 255.0.0.0
 
**3. Create virtual operation system**

Create new instance with name OpenStack-Essex
Add interfaces:
* Virtual Host Only Adapter #2 - eth0
* Virtual Host Only Adapter #3 - eth1
* Nat - eth2
 
Setup instance:
* 3Gb operational memory
* 15Gb disk size
* 4 VCPU 
 
Run instance and select ubuntu-12.4-server-amd64.iso 
 
**4. Install Ubuntu Server 64-bit**

Select in installation steps

* select eth2 as primary interface
* entire disk
* no proxy
* no automatic updates
* OpenSSH - enabled
* install the GRUB boot loader - yes

**5. Update Ubuntu Server 64-bit**

Login to the ubuntu and type:

bc. sudo bash
apt-get update
apt-get dist-upgrade

**6. Setup networks**

Change interfaces file 

bc. sudo bash
nano /etc/network/interfaces

Insert text

pre.. 

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

#Primary interface NAT interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

#public interface – The API village
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
address 172.16.0.1
netmask 255.255.0.0
network 172.16.0.0
broadcast 172.16.255.255

#Private Vlan Land of Compute Nodes
auto eth2
iface eth2 inet manual
up ifconfig eth2 up

p. Restart the networking service

bc. /etc/init.d/networking restart

After restart you could connect to the virtual machine by "putty":http://the.earth.li/~sgtatham/putty/latest/x86/putty.exe,
use the 172.16.0.1 address and 22 port

**7. Checkout OpenStack Essex Installer**

Install Git and checkout OpenStackInstaller

bc. sudo bash
apt-get install git-core
exit
git clone https://github.com/uksysadmin/OpenStackInstaller.git
cd OpenStackInstaller
git checkout essex

change file OpenStackInstaller/OSinstall.sh

from

pre..  
DEFAULT_PUBLIC_INTERFACE=eth1
DEFAULT_PRIVATE_INTERFACE=eth0

p. to

pre.. 
DEFAULT_PUBLIC_INTERFACE=eth0
DEFAULT_PRIVATE_INTERFACE=eth1

p. And other default settings if need 

**8. Install OpenStack Essex**

Install OpenStack Essex

bc. sudo bash
cd OpenStackInstaller
./OSinstall.sh -F 172.16.1.0/24 -f 10.1.0.0/16 -s 512 -t demo -v qemu

p. Answer 'Y' and wait 5-10 of minutes

Upload first image

bc. ./upload_ubuntu.sh -a admin -p openstack -t demo -C 172.16.0.1

Create key_pair
Add open ports on security group 'default'

pre.. 
TCP 22 22 0.0.0.0/0 (CIDR)
ICMP -1 -1 0.0.0.0/0 (CIDR)
TCP 8080 8080 0.0.0.0/0 (CIDR)
TCP 80 80 0.0.0.0/0 (CIDR)

Open page http://172.16.0.1
Login: demo
Password: openstack

p. Enjoy

**9. Install OpenStack Volume**

Install nova-volume

bc. sudo bash
apt-get install nova-volume open-iscsi iscsitarget iscsitarget-dkms

Enable iscsitarget

bc. sed -i 's/false/true/g' /etc/default/iscsitarget
service iscsitarget start
service open-iscsi start

Add second drive in VirtualBox to your VM

Manage hard drives, you need couple of them, ensure that you are having two disks

bc. fdisk -l 2>/dev/null | grep '/dev/sd[a-b]'

Create physical volume on second drive

bc. pvcreate /dev/sdb

Create Nova Volumes group on second drive

bc. vgcreate nova-volumes /dev/sdb

Restart nova-volume

bc. service nova-volume start
nova-manage service list




