---
layout: post
title: OpenStack Essex Installation Guide
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 11 July 2012 - Moscow

This is OpenStack Install guide on VMWare Workstation Under Windows

**1. Download VMware Workstation**

I hope you are having 64 bit operation system, in this case select 64 bit VMWare Workstation

**2. Create Virtual Machine**

Create new virtual machine with
* 4 VCPUs
* 3Gb memory
* 20Gb disk space
* eth0 NAT Network
* eth1 Host-Only Network with Vmnet1 192.168.230.0 mask 255.255.255.0, no DHCP
* eth2 Host-Only Network with Vmnet2 192.168.231.0 mask 255.255.255.0, no DHCP

**3. Install Ubuntu Server 64-bit**

Select Ubuntu Server 12.0 ISO and install operation system
use openstack-essex name for OS and username/password

Change to root:

bc. sudo bash

Change operation system name:

bc. nano /etc/hostname

Enter **openstack-essex** and save

Change hosts file:

bc. nano /etc/hosts

Enter 192.168.230.1 openstack-essex

Change network interfaces:

bc. nano /etc/network/interfaces

Insert text

pre.. 

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

#Primary interface NAT interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

#public interface – The API village
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
address 192.168.230.1
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.230.0
broadcast 192.168.230.255

#Private Vlan Land of Compute Nodes
auto eth2
iface eth2 inet manual
up ifconfig eth2 up

p. Restart the operation system

bc. shutdown -r now

Check from Windows that VM is accessible by eth1

bc. cmd
ping 192.168.230.1

In the Virtual Machine console check NAT interface  

bc. ping google.com

**4. Update Ubuntu Openstack-Essex**

Update Ubuntu and install SSH

bc. sudo bash
apt-get update
apt-get dist-upgrade
apt-get install ssh ntp

Connect through Putty by eth0 to the Virtual Machine
Use UTF-8 encoding

Change NTP settings:

bc. nano /etc/ntp.conf

Insert on top:

pre.. 

server ntp.ubuntu.com iburst
server 127.127.1.0
fudge 127.127.1.0 stratum 10

p. Restart NTP service

bc. service ntp restart
ntptime

**5.Install packages**

bc. apt-get install tgt
apt-get install open-iscsi open-iscsi-utils
apt-get install bridge-utils

Retart networking

bc. /etc/init.d/networking restart

Install more packages

bc. apt-get install rabbitmq-server memcached python-memcache
apt-get install kvm libvirt-bin
apt-get install -y mysql-server python-mysqldb

Create Databases:

bc. mysql -u root -p

bc. CREATE DATABASE keystone;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON keystone.* TO 'keystone'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'openstack'; 
CREATE DATABASE nova;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON nova.* TO 'nova'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'openstack';
CREATE DATABASE glance;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON glance.* TO 'glance'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'openstack';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
QUIT;

Check connection to database:

bc. mysql -u nova -p nova
mysql -u glance -p glance

Enter: 'openstack' password

Change bing address of the mysql

bc. nano /etc/mysql/my.cnf

pre.. 

/*from
bind-address = 127.0.0.1
/*to
bind-address = 0.0.0.0

p. Restart mysql service

bc. service mysql restart


**6.Install Keystone**

Install keystone packages

bc. apt-get install keystone python-keystone python-keystoneclient

Change keystone settings

bc. nano /etc/keystone/keystone.conf

pre.. 

[DEFAULT]
admin_token = TOKEN123

[sql]
connection = mysql://keystone:openstack@localhost/keystone
min_pool_size = 5
max_pool_size = 10
pool_timeout = 200
idle_timeout = 200

p. Restart Keystone service


bc. service keystone restart
keystone-manage db_sync

Download keystone initialization script

bc. wget https://github.com/downloads/nerdalert/Openstack-Essex-install-config-files/keystone.sh
chmod +x keystone.sh

Change token in script

bc. nano keystone.sh 

Change export SERVICE_TOKEN=”openstack” to export SERVICE_TOKEN=”TOKEN123”

Run keystone script

bc. ./keystone.sh
echo $?

Should return 0 if success

Restart Keystone service

bc. service keystone restart


**7.Install Glance**

Install packages

bc. sudo bash
apt-get install glance glance-api glance-client glance-common glance-registry python-glance

Change ~/.bashrc

bc. nano ~/.bashrc

Insert text:

pre.. 

export SERVICE_TOKEN=TOKEN123
export OS_TENANT_NAME=admin
export OS_USERNAME=admin
export OS_PASSWORD=openstack
export OS_AUTH_URL="http://localhost:5000/v2.0/"
export SERVICE_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:35357/v2.0

p. Restart bash and check exports

bc. bash
export

Change ini files for Glance

bc. nano /etc/glance/glance-registry-paste.ini
nano /etc/glance/glance-api-paste.ini

Chage properties in bottom

pre.. 

admin_tenant_name = admin
admin_user = admin
admin_password = openstack

p. Change mysql connection string for Glance

bc. nano /etc/glance/glance-registry.conf

pre.. 

sql_connection = mysql://glance:openstack@localhost/glance

p. Add in bottom keystone reference

bc. nano /etc/glance/glance-registry.conf
nano /etc/glance/glance-api.conf

pre.. 

[paste_deploy]
flavor = keystone

p. Restart Glance

bc. service glance-api restart
service glance-registry restart
glance-manage version_control 0
glance-manage db_sync
service glance-api restart
service glance-registry restart

pre.. 

/*Upload Images
/* 11.10 image
wget http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/11.10/release/ubuntu-11.10-server-cloudimg-amd64-disk1.img
/* 12.04 image
wget https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/precise/current/precise-server-cloudimg-amd64-disk1.img

p. Download Ubuntu images

bc. glance index




